good morning thanks for coming out
nine o'clock on friday morning
especially after the big bash last night
there's a one-point avoid I'd like to
just mention before we start the
network's down they are apparently over
in moscone they cut through the OC 3 so
no network today we have a fewer backup
strategies and I hope their work but
please bear weather's if further a few
glitches during the demos so there's
been several sessions on the web
technologies the conflict so far and
you've probably seen over views about
WebKit and Safari and how supplier uses
webkit what I'm going to do in this
session is drill down a bit into the
WebKit API and show you a few specific
features and some code demos to explain
how to use WebKit as you will know to
follow it was a great success and we're
going to bring that success to you
through a web kit so what is WebKit
WebKit is a framework that's installed
on your system when you install Safari
one point 0 and it's also included with
panther it allows you to embed web
content HTML images plugin content like
quicktime java flash and it entirely
encapsulate the open source engine now i
want to drill down into a demo in pretty
quickly here and like I said no network
connection so we'll see how this goes
now good downloads tend to flow up the
management change so some of the other
sessions have shown you this demo
already the Achilles browser but I want
to use this demo to illustrate some
point so I'm going to build the code
looks browser see how many of you saw
this demo before the coatless browser
demo okay join us it again
yeah okay okay no well I'll try move
quickly and show you a few different
things in this demo so I'm going to load
interface builder and show you the new
palette the WebKit palette and this
palette has a single class on at the web
view and this little rectangle is
deceptively simple that can go really is
your high level view into the WebKit
it's where the web content will be shown
what I'm going to do is hook this up to
the text field using the normal actually
let's skip the target action and go
directly to the the binding technology
so i'll create a controller for the web
view and i'm going to bind the text
field to the main claims uo l and what
this will allow me to do is keep the web
view and the text field in sync as I
navigate around a page now once that you
haven't seen before is is showing the
favorite icon for a page so into
father's address bar sometimes we show
an icon for a URL that's called a fav
icon so I'm going to hook up a fav icon
for this this demo its place that in the
window and I'll bind that to the the
icon for the page and then let's add
some back forward buttons
and then will bind the back and forward
button to the web controller so that
when we know we can go back they'll be
enabled and disabled as appropriate but
that's pretty much it let me set the
resize flags for these things and then
we'll test the interface and hopefully
we'll have some degree of net connection
so I can show you some of the
capabilities of WebKit let's go ahead
and text this or interface now what I'd
like to do is attempt to access this
local groups cubic this local web server
that we just set up five minutes before
the presentation and let's hope that
it's good learning so I'm going to cut
and paste the URL directly out of Safari
into there we go woohoo what you got to
set the resize flags on the text field
so let me go ahead and just do that so
so that's that's a quick overview of the
high-level capabilities of the webview
now I'd like to ask somebody to come up
on stage we're going to attempt to use a
modem to connect to the world wide web
so you may not see the speed of what
you're used to with Safari but at least
we'll get some external connection to
the web so these slide please
could you switch to the slide please
slice q spikes thank you so I'm going to
recap the design goals a few of the
design goals of the webkit some of these
you may have heard before first and most
importantly we wanted to support a
world-class web browser and we think
we've done that with Safari secondly and
very importantly for this discussion we
wanted to support embedding so that's
what the web gets all about and you get
the same benefit that society has in
terms of high performance small
footprint fast loading faster and drinks
and excellent standard support that
Apple is really committed to continuing
to enhance and extend very importantly
to a simple and flexible API now you've
seen how simple it is but often simple
means limited and inflexible we think
the WebKit at the API even though the
surface level is very very simple it
provides you with enough hooks to really
extend and customize as appropriate in
your applications so a milligram focus
on next design goal embedding for this
discussion this is a high-level overview
of the architecture of WebKit and it
illustrates how WebKit entirely
encapsulates the open-source internals
of WebKit HTML we depend on a few key
system frameworks the app kit for native
cocoa widget core graphics for hardware
accelerated renderings and foundations
for fast URL loading now even though
Apple focuses on the web confirms of its
API we are committed to expanding and
enhancing HTML now late above this is a
see API that facilitates using the
WebKit classes and technology in carbon
applications so as you as you already
know probably the WebKit is based on K
HTML and the WebKit is an umbrella
framework and embedded inside the
umbrella framework are two
you sub frame works webcor and
javascriptcore as you know probably at
this point they're open source and they
include apples work on cage tml now
really important point is that we're not
supporting the web core API which you
can see if you download the web Corps
table we're not supporting that is a
public API you will change in the future
so instead use the WebKit API if you
want to embed this technology in your
applications so I'm going to focus on
these key concepts when I talk about the
website now now these this isn't the
only set of functionality provided in
the WebKit but if you understand these
four basic ideas you can really start to
use the WebKit views that's how things
actually get rendered on screen web
frames which is how we represent an
individual frame how you get data into
the WebKit and finally the delegates
which is our mechanisms for extending
the API so if the next few slides please
keep their diagram in mind this I'm
going to come back to this so you don't
have to understand it all right now but
this is where we're going to go for the
next few slides these are the classes
and the relationships between the
classes that we're going to talk about
and to talk about the classes I'd like
to use an HTML document a really simple
document on the left side of the screen
on the right side of the screen I'm
going to talk about the classes that
represent the various different aspects
of that HTML document so first up web
view which exceed already and the code
looks browser demo it is the rectangle
that will show you the content which
represented by your web page now web
page is a little bit more details than
simple documents web pages connects with
me compound documents as represented by
a frameset so in this case we have a
really simple frame set with two
subframes we represent a flame with a
class called web frame
now there's not a one-to-one
correspondence between a web frame and
an HTML claim or an i claim we use a web
frame even for frameless documents to
represent what we call the mainframe so
web view will always have at least one
the webview always have at least one web
frame the mainframe in this particular
example there are three frames the
mainframe and web frame representing a
dot HTML and web frame representing V
dot HTML web frames in turn have two
pieces what we call the web data source
and the web frame view the data source
holds the data the actual bite that
represent the the document or the image
whatever else is being shown in a web
frame and the web frame view is the
piece that does the rendering there's a
little bit more detail so web documents
can actually be various different data
types very different mime types can be
represented in the frame in this case an
HTML document and a JPEG so for each
different mind types that can be shown
in a web frame we have mime type
specific classes these are actually
protocols that are implemented on
private classes in WebKit so the web
data source has a web document
representation that's mimetypes surface
specific and the web frame view has a
mime type specific view the web document
view so if you understand these core
classes you really understand WebKit
again this is a summary of the classes
and the relationship to each other you
see we have the webview an underneath
the webview we have a hierarchy of web
frames to represent the frame set on a
page or the ice creams on a page or even
just the main frame of a document so how
do you get data into the WebKit well we
use the new foundation URL loading
mechanism and there was a great talk on
that yesterday I hope you had a chance
to see that and the two key classes that
show up in the WebKit API
of the NF u of l request and the
nsurlresponse-- the request represents a
response to go get data and the response
is to reply once you receive that data
and the session on disability it
happened yesterday but I encourage you
to go back and look at it on DVD so how
do you initiate a load you initiate the
load on a web frame typically what
you'll do is get the mainframe off the
web view and tell that to load data and
you can load data in one of three ways
you can use a request typically if
you're going to go and get a resource
out of the of the web you use the URL
request you can specify string data you
can actually create a little HTML page
and place that right into a web view
alternatively you can use earnest data
and you could even for examples provide
image data world image data to the web
frame specify the mime type and will
correctly decode that and do our best to
render that image and of course all
aspects of loading the frame level to be
monitored so not only can web pages be
compound documents but a single web page
typically has many sub resources images
CSS JavaScript even we even consider
subframes resources in a certain sense
now these resources are loaded
automatically for you you don't have to
do anything to have WebKit load
resources for you it happens behind the
scenes but you can if you wish to
monitor the load of these sub resources
and even change the loading of these
resources you can redirect URLs two
completely different sites you can
change the caching mechanisms you have
complete flexibility about how these sub
resources are loaded if you want to so
I'd like to actually jump down into some
code before we go back to another demo
and show you how easy it is to create a
web view that typically you would do
this with interface builder you wouldn't
have to write this code but if you want
to this is how you would create a web
view you simply Alex and then it was
where
name like any other NS few and then add
that to your view hierarchy depending
upon how your application is set up then
to low data you typically get the main
claim off the web view and create a
request and then load that request to
simple as that alternatively in this
example has created a little HTML
fragment and the WebKit engine the Cape
smell engine is really smart enough to
understand fragments of HTML so in this
case it's really malformed there's not
even H an HTML tag but the WebKit engine
will still go ahead and render this
correctly so one more code example
Before we jump to a demo this is a
little snippet that shows you how to
extract the HTML source of the data
sources representation once a document
is loaded so in this case I simply get
the mainframe I get the data source of
the mainframe I get its representation
which again is mimetypes specific and I
ask that if it's capable of providing
document sauce because if it's an image
a JPEG for example it won't be able to
provide move document source I get the
document sauce and then they log it to
the console so the demo I'd like to show
you next highlights one specific aspect
of the WebKit which i think is really
interesting and allows for some creative
opportunities hopefully it will inspire
you to think about different ways to use
web kit in your applications so one
thing we get asked a lot is how do I
interact with the document if I load a
document in WebKit in my application
code how can i change the document how
can i modify the Dom well the way you do
that is to execute javascript in the
documents context and a typical approach
to this is in the content that you may
display a WebKit define a JavaScript
function and then from your application
code invoke that JavaScript function
and like I said you can use this to
modify the Dom of the document in pretty
creative ways so this is a little code
example that shows an HTML page with a
JavaScript snippet that has a function
to find an element on a page in this
case and image element using the
standard Dom API get element by ID and
then it multiplies the image width now
by default when you multiply one
dimension of an image both the width and
the height of that image will change so
this effectively scales down the image
how do you invoke that from your
application code this is how with this
little piece of objective-c I create a
string it represents the JavaScript I'd
like to execute and then I simply tell
the webview execute this string and now
we'll execute the JavaScript in the
context of the document let's go ahead
and do a demo of this
my am I actually live on the net okay
before we do this let me try and show
you another piece of the demo I'd like
to I would have liked to have shown you
earlier had the net been up and that
with me if it doesn't work run a mow
down and it's been a long time since
I've used the modem so who knows how
well the speed will be like it's been it
back by the way oh we know we're not
okay so this is a site that I don't know
if you've been to Ranger calm and is it
going to load I don't think it's going
to load okay so
give it a few more seconds loading
loading loading nope we're not going to
get to see anything press so let me exit
interface builder okay how about we
force quit interface builder time to
move on let's quit bye-bye okay so let
me bring out the plug X in Xcode and let
me launch the the nib file for this
project and you can see it's very
similar to the previous demos the single
window with a webview and what I'm going
to do is load some static content into
this window so we don't need the web and
then we're going to interact with it
from our application so let me go ahead
and just show you the content that I'm
going to display here this context kind
of interesting it's three divs and
they're layered and one of the divs has
a transparent image in it so you can see
this nice transparency gives you a sense
of some of the advanced features of our
engine now what I'd like to do is add a
couple buttons to this window and when I
click those buttons I'd like to zoom the
picture of the spider now this spider
happens to be the mascot of via safari
team before we add the nice comfort we
used it internally for a long time so
let me go ahead and add those two
buttons in interface builder I'm going
to shrink this window a little bit and
I'm going to add a button to a zoom in
don't need the air capital N and a
button to zoom out then we'll go ahead
and connect these zoom in and zoom out
and what I'm connecting these two is
just a simple custom class that's been
instantiated it's called Zuma now let's
light these methods that we've
disconnected zoom in and zoom out so I'm
going to go back to let me just save
that I'm going to go back to Xcode and
bring up some source code now this is a
pretty simple class and hello ok let's
try bring that up in the next little
window so the first thing this class
does is and it's awake from nib method
is it loads the template that we're
going to display for that HTML document
and this just uses the normal cocoa
bundle and bundle and string functions
so then we go ahead and invoke the
mainframe load HTML string to load that
template let me just show you the
document really quickly so we're going
to load this is simple HTML that has
some styling has some script zoom in and
zoom out method and this is the image
element that we're going to reference
back up in our JavaScript when we change
the width and height
so to add the zoom in and zoom out
actions I'm going to scroll down to this
code and just enable it you can see it's
pretty strips pretty simple I have the
webview string by evaluating JavaScript
from strings zoom image in and I pass in
the name of the image elements that I
want to find and invoke it so let's go
ahead and build and once it's linked
we'll run it I guess ask you a quick
first there we have it the back to take
the resize flags again but I can zoom in
zoom out and of course you can do use
the same technique to modify any aspect
of the page it's not just limited to
this particular feature so what I'd like
to do now is to let me just clean up a
little bit and then go back to the to
the slide
so we've covered the important classes
of the webkit the web view the web frame
the data source the frame view the next
really big set of important
functionality of the delegates and
unlike most of the cocoa delegates where
there's one delegate per class we
actually have four delegates the class /
web view I should say and this is how we
control most aspects of the WebKit each
galaga is can implement methods that are
defined by an informal protocol and so
those of you that aren't familiar with
informal protocols this is really just
an interface with methods that may be
optionally implemented on your class and
again i emphasize optional because you
don't have to implement any delegates to
make WebKit work it's only if you want
to customize behavior and as i mentioned
all of the delegates are managed by the
webview so going back to our previous
diagram these four delegates fit in to
the webview like this and I'll come back
to this diagram again this is where
we're going those four delegates are the
web same load delegate it monitors the
progress of a document loads a document
level the web resource load delegate and
it will let you look at each individual
image and CSS file and jobs which file
as it loads the web policy delegate
which gives you a great amount of
flexibility about how you want to manage
linked reversal the user clicks on the
link what happens in X the policy
delegate will let you handle them on the
web UI delegate the web UI delegate is
responsible for managing all of the
chrome related to a window and also the
window itself as well as handling
JavaScript interaction for things like
status and alerts so
when you load a document over the web
it's actually a relatively complicated
process more detailed process I should
say and at the simple level it described
by these four states you start loading a
document we have this notion of a
document being committed and I'll come
back to that in a second the document
finishing loading so it's being done and
then finally the document going away
being closed now what's this committed
thing well the web tends to be elephone
so typically if you initiate a load of a
document and for whatever reason the
server doesn't respond we don't get in
data back that document isn't committed
it's really a provisional load until you
reach this committed stage it's only
once we receive some data back from the
server that the load becomes really
valid and you can progress to the next
stages so this notion of provisional
committed really is very important
during the loading stages of a document
things get even more detailed though
before you can get to the committee
stage often a server may redirect you to
an entirely different site so you enter
one URL on the server redirects you to
an entirely different location and will
give the flame low delegate an
indication when this happened and this
can happen one or more times you can get
redirected to several servers before you
get to the final page that's going to be
shown the jet mode get more detail so
provides good user feedback during a
page load what you often like to do is
show perhaps the page title or the same
wood icon so we'll give you Delta
callbacks when we receive that
information and then finally even after
a document is loaded the user might want
to navigate to a link within a page an
anchor point within a page so we'll tell
you when that happens and finally the
last notification that the same load
delegate receives is if a client
redirect happens for example is it might
be a meadow redirect on a page
and that you might be redirected to
another site and Kylie or perhaps
JavaScript might change the location of
the page so all of these events are sent
to the web claim load delegate now the
web resource load delegate is again the
delegate that receives messages about
loads of images CSS JavaScript and it
has these four set of methods that sent
to the resource load delegate when we
send the initial request and at this
point you have an opportunity to look at
the request modified in whatever way you
choose including canceling the request
entirely you can add headers you can
change the URL you can do whatever you
want then you receive a call back
telling you that the server's responded
and again you have a chance to look at
the response and for those of you that
are familiar with the nsurlresponse--
and request API is this should be very
familiar to you then after the response
you get a number of callbacks for each
data packet that we will see from the
server and in fact you may receive
multiple of those depending upon how the
server responds and then finally when
the resource is finished loading you get
a done message the policy delegate this
delegates a little different than the
other delegates the other delegates
mostly just go back to tell you about
things happening the policy delegate
actually asks you a question what should
I do when navigation happens tell me
tell me how I should respond and the
response can be asynchronous so you can
put up modal dialogues wait to use a
response and then tell well WebKit how
to continue its each of the methods that
we send to the policy delegate there are
three possible choices go ahead and use
it as you normally would the default
policy ignore it can stop whatever
you're doing drop this load on the floor
or download download download the URL to
a disk
so the policy delegate is consulted at
least three times during the document
load initially its asked should I open
this URL in a new window and if so the
UI delegate comes into play remember
it's the thing responsible for managing
windows should I go ahead and handle
this request you know this gives the
policy delegate a chance to look at the
request details potentially presents the
user with a dialog like this is an HTTP
request HTTPS request do you really want
to do that and then finally based on the
mime type that we receive and this
happens after we send the request we get
the response back with the mime type
what should I do with the mime type and
this may be the location for example
that you hand off a request to launch
services to handle opening the request
externally do i delegate the i delegate
is probably that the fattest delegate in
terms of the total number of methods and
it's responsible for all the chrome so
in safari this is the thing that open up
opens up a new window it manages the
status bar at the bottom of the supply
window managers the toolbar at the top
of the window new potential javascript
alert and literally allows you to modify
the context menus so if you ctrl-click
or for those people with two mice right
click on an element the UI delegate is
referenced so Vaculik diagram this is
what we've covered so far the classes
the core classes of WebKit and the
delegates of web view the web chrome
load delegate loads or let you monitor
the load at a document level the web
resource load delegate lets you monitor
loading / resource where policy delegate
which lets you intervene to manage
navigation actions and the web UI
delegate would select your marriage you
I chrome so I'd like to go back to a
demo
oh we back exciting oh it's modem it's
just modem ah ok well let me let me go
let me be step on the wild side and try
ok just in Safari I want to share this
page because I think it's really cool
i'll do it into folly but remember that
left angle in safari is the same
rectangle that you would see in WebKit
so what you can do in Safari you can do
in WebKit and this demo highlights some
of the amazing things that you can do
with modern web standards this is just
simple HTML a JavaScript pretty pretty
cool huh minimize windows expand them
close them so I'm ticket think about
this when you're thinking about web get
applications it's not just the web
browser and you can use the power of
HTML CSS and JavaScript in marvelous and
creative ways that we can't even
anticipate yet I think that they'll
probably be 20 browsers on virgin
cracker in the next few months but we
think supplies pretty good i'm sure
they're going to be other good glasses
out there but think about other ways to
use WebKit ok back to the demo so what
I'd like to do is go back to the image
Zuma demo and add a context menu so I
had buttons at the top of the screen to
zoom in and zoom out what about using a
context menu to zoom in and out on that
image but only want a mouse over an
image let's do that so I'm gonna bring
up the source again for the image Zoomer
and the first thing I need to do is set
up a delegate and i'm going to add that
code up in the wake from dave method
that's as simple as that i'm setting
self as the UI delegate and then the one
method that i care about for this demo
is the method that lets the UI delegate
specify the context menu so in this case
if you're familiar with some oats
familiar with cocoa you'll be familiar
with this code here and the expected
response of this method webview context
menu items for element default menu
items is an array that contains the menu
items that are going to be shown when
you context click on an item so in this
case I only care about image URL keys so
if the click is over an image URL I'm
going to go ahead and construct 2 menu
items zoom in and zoom out and return
that away otherwise otherwise I would
turn nil so we'll get no context menus
unless the user right clicks on an image
we go ahead and build this se rule files
yes build and then once its link we'll
go ahead and run it again so zoom in
zoom out buttons but now if I hold down
the control key I the context menu zoom
in I get the same behavior umount simple
so this is an interesting demo but it's
somewhat contrived you know would you
ever really want to do this probably not
but the same technique can be used in an
application that's actually on the SDK
which is useful actually as an
application in its own right i'm going
to show you that application now and the
entire source code for this application
is available on the sdk let's go ahead
and hydro this and this is a browsing
application that lets you browse
pictures and i often use this when i'm
trolling for icons using my my
applications so i'm going to open up the
applications directory and on the left
side of the screen we see a list of the
applications kind of like a finder and i
can drill down into let's take a look at
I photo I can drill down into a
directory and see all of the images for
that particular directory so it's kind
of like an image browser and you can see
that calendar often may be considered
but this is all dynamic and the pages
constructed on the fly based upon
scanning the file system it's really
useful for looking good images so if I
can even zoom in quick back and forth
and you get a lot of features which I'm
not going to talk about today like back
and forward in history these things are
relevant for applications other than web
browsers so if I go back you're like I
really shut up to a nice little back
forward okay let me show you some
pictures that I took this weekend at
auckland zoo
and this this den will actually makes
use of custom protocol believe it or not
the URLs for these pages on HTTP or file
URLs that were custom protocol and that
protocol is interpreted to generate
on-the-fly HTML content so as I click on
a link this is a actually what I called
picture browser protocol that lets me
generate the rapper HTML for this
particular content so I encourage you to
take a look at that application for tips
and techniques about how to use WebKit
so there's one more demo I'd like to
show you and this is again a demo that
is available on the SDK the full source
for it's available on the SDK and this
is more of a traditional browser really
tries to show you the capabilities from
a browser perspective you fly off list
it's called the mini browser that's the
name on the SDK let me go ahead and run
it for you now and I guess I'm still on
the modem so speedy supply isn't so
speedy on a modem but it's still pretty
good on the modem so I have a lot of the
features that I'd normally expect I can
you know make text bigger if there is
any text on this page isn't too much
text smaller now one thing you'll notice
though is that I don't get a lot of
sleep oh this is actually good a slow
link I can show a progress feedback
better because take so long to load so
if I go to another page take a look at
the title bar there this is loading
loading loading loading and we've got
the title but I'd like to buy I'd like
to provide a bit more feedback maybe a
counter that shows me the number of
resources that are loading no one is 40
year and then that would progress as I
load additional resources but at least
it would give me you know some idea that
the page is still loading that's a key
pretty good at the modem
okay so let me go ahead and add those
features so what I'm going to do to
enable these features is extend the
document for the mini browser to be a
resource load delegate remember the
resource load delegate is the thing that
gets notified as resources awhile use
over the net and I think they'll become
code down here look at that okay let me
cut and paste this code again and i'm
going to set up the document as the
resource load delegate and now there's
actually more than just one method here
to do this enable this code and i'll
just start talking through the code we
don't need that that will compile so the
first method is identify us for initial
request now why do we need to identify
it why can't we just use request well
requests can actually change they
communicate they can be redirected and
what you often want to do is identify
the notion of a resource independent of
those redirects or modification of the
request so the identifier will remain
constant throughout a resource load even
if the request changes so you can use
this kind of as your own tag to track a
particular resource load and in this
case which can allocate an NS number it
can be an arbitrary object whatever you
want WebKit doesn't care about the
identifier just lets you specify it so
then you get notified that we're about
to send the request will send requests
and at this point you can modify the
request change it in whatever way you
choose and there's a lot of flexibility
here change your caching policy you can
add headers you can disable cookie
management whatever you want you can
just really modify the request
so what we're going to do is just update
the resource status and I'll show you
this method in the second but it really
just modifies the title of the window
and then we return the same request so
we let WebKit go ahead and handle it as
it normally would next method did fail
loading with Ella it sent to you if
that's an l a-- and you feel free to
know do whatever you want with that ever
and the object it's not just a code it's
a fully fledged NHL object it has a
localized description you can present
that in a dialog box what we're going to
do is just count increment a counter to
indicate that the resource failed and
again we're going to update the title
bar with that of the resource cutters
and then finally you get this message
did finish loading some data source when
the load complete let me just show you
the update resource status method all
it's going to do is it's a failed count
it's going to construct the strings and
tell you about those others if there
isn't a fail counts it's going to just
construct the string that search loaded
X of X to X of n let's go ahead and
build this which build button should i
click this 10 this one ok sable so many
options to build to the build there we
go ok I'm still running
ok so now tickle isn't title bar loaded
21 and 41 to making the number of
resources on somebody pages it just go
to a couple let's cue we shall courage
so on the other thing that is
interesting that you might have noticed
that the total changed that's because
the number of concurrent loads actually
you know may change over time because
the webkit loads images as it encounters
them as it passes a page ok so that's
the mini blazer demo so the last topic
I'd like to cover in the many minutes is
the capi and the WebKit is a objective-c
total framework no doubt about that but
we've gone to some effort to make the
same technology available via carbon
applications the way we've done this is
to create an H I've you that actually
really backed by a web view so you can
use the web technology in your carbon
applications but if you really want to
drill down into some of the advanced
features you will have to write get to
see you objective c plus plus this is a
little C snippet code snippet of how you
would construct a web view using the
capi we simply created a chai web you
create and then the next few lines of
code will just modify the frame of the
webview to correspond to the content
view of the main view of your window and
then finally you add the web view as a
sub view of the root of your window so I
would like to do now is to show you
whipped a demo of a few of these carbon
applications now in the XDK we have full
source code for the carbon web
browser which is a common application
and it isn't just a simple carbon
application we've actually done a lot of
code to provide adaptive to carbon
events so you can use this as a model
for how to interact with WebKit via
carbon events I encourage you to take a
look at the source code for that but as
you can see it it's a full full full out
full featured browser this particular
demo also includes history and md source
but the source actually gets logged to a
console not in a separate window then
the other demo that I'd like to show you
is the carbon downloader a misuse is
actually the foundation ap is to
download a URL to the desktop as you can
see so I encourage you to look at both
of these examples so that's it for the
demos and one final note about the XDK
it does work on 10.2 in fact the XDK is
designed to be installed on 10-2 so you
must first install safari one point 0
and then the sdk on top of that and I
gather there are some problems
installing the sdk on Panther so what
you can do is just copy the headers from
know that it ok ok so I'll Panther you
don't have to do anything you get you
get the sbk built in and as I mentioned
there are several examples that are
quite comprehensive in the SDK and
they'll be more to come and if there's
anything in particular you like us to
see or like us to write for you as
examples you know please let us let us
know it also includes conceptual and
reference documentation that's pretty
comprehensive and it's available now
actually as of monday i believe for
download from a DC
for more information you can look at the
ADC website there's actually a number of
topical tech notes on there one of
interest is how do I detect whether or
not the XDK is installed so for example
if I want to build an application to
depend on this technology how can I know
that my clients actually have web kit
installed so there's actually little toe
temple to show you how to do that which
is I think pretty helpful the WebKit
reference subject to see the website
reference to see and the URL loading
materials also up there sample code and
of course you know what really makes the
WebKit great is the HTML CSS and
JavaScript technology that you can
really show in WebKit so I encourage you
to look at these great books for more
information about those technologies and
contact john glenn see if any questions
so I think that's it for the slides so
Q&A